---
title: TPS - Prologue
subtitle: Graduation
author: fightfil
date: August 31, 2016
category: The Penultimate Step
summary: |
   <p>This is the beginning of <em>The Penultimate Step</em>! Read, and
   enjoy! For more information about the story itself, beyond just the
   story as it is in the text, go to 
   <a href="/pages/penultimate-step/index.html">the project landing page</a>.</p>
   <p><a href="#commentary">More notes are at the bottom of the page.</a></p>

tags:
  - prologue
  - college
  - transgender
  - trans
  - high jump
  - track + field
commentary: |
    <p>Welcome to <em>The Penultimate Step</em> a project I'm super excited about.
    As you can see, its about Ellie (currently known as Ethan) Carver, a
    transgender  student who just graduated high school.</p>

    <p>Please comment! I live for them. Like they're the entire reason I
    decided to try posting this serially, instead of just writing on my own.</p>
 
    <p>-Fightfil</p>

    <p>P.S. It feels necessary to disclaim my treatment of Carver as a 
    transgender character. Her experiences and gender identity closely follow
    those of my own, with some merging of those of my friends and neighbors.
    Not everyone who identifies as transgender, will have these experiences or 
    feel the same way.</p>

    <p>Their identities are just as valid--transness is expressed in 
    innumerable different ways by innumerable different people, and each is 
    just as real and valid as the other. I am choosing to write Ellie this way,
    rather than one I am less familiar with because I think it's going to make
    a strong character, with her other traits taking a forefront rather than 
    just her transness.</p>

    <p>Despite that, her transness is an integral part of this story, so it
    will be central to the plot, but I will do my best to ensure that the
    identities and orientations of my characters are not overshadowing their
    actual personality traits.</p>
---

"What *are* you doing, Carver?"

"You'll find out. Don't worry about it."

Everything is lain out before me: my robe, my mortar board, and my
implements of re-invention. Of course, those are covered, hidden from
the prying eyes of my roommate. It won't do to reveal any secrets
prematurely. Today, I adhere to Shakespeare's ideology: the world is my
stage, and I am merely a player. And as such, I must follow the rules of
drama.

Everything must build to the climax, and at the height of the drama,
only then can secrets be truly revealed, can the plot be resolved. The
past four years have been building to this one moment---this is the
climax of this chapter of my life.

"Remember, we all have to be ready to march at 11."

"I know, Gregory. I'm practically running this, remember?"

He rolls his eyes at me, "Whatever. Just don't piss of the headmaster on
your last day."

"Hey, there's no better way to end your high school career."

Shaking his head, he leaves the room.

With him gone, I get to work.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Are you sure you are allowed to do that to your graduation robes?"

"I'm only making minor modifications."

"Minor? You're turning it into a gown!"

"That *is* the point, Jesse."

"You sure you aren't going to get into trouble for this?"

"Nope! But, honestly, I don't care. As soon as I came up with the idea,
I knew that I had to do this, no matter the consequences. I have to do
it for me."

"OK. Just don't get expelled on the day of graduation."

"Phhbt, like they're gonna expel me." *They're gonna expel me*.

"I'm done with your mortar board."

"Thanks, Kels."

*I think that's everything.* "Wish me luck." *This is going to be a
disaster.*

Kels literally jumps on me, squeezing me in the tightest hug her tiny
frame allows. "Kill 'em."

"You're going to give them a speech they'll remember for the rest of
their lives, Carver." *That's what I'm afraid of.*

I put the little one down, extricating myself from her tiny limbs. "I'm
gonna miss you guys."

They both come in for the hug this time. "Fuck you for leaving us."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Who *is* that?"

"Is she a dude?"

"What did they do to the graduation robes? Are we allowed to do that?"

*Breathe... Ignore them.*

"Graduates, line up."

I take my place at the lead of my line.

"That's Carver?"

"What's he doing all made up like a girl?"

The orchestra started playing---Pomp and Circumstance and we stepped
down the aisle.

The whispers start again, this time from the gathered onlookers---family
and friends of the other graduates. I draw into myself. *They think
you're a freak.* *You* are *a freak.*

We file in amongst the seats, standing in front of our chairs.

The headmaster steps to the podium. "Welcome to commencement 2016!
Graduates: congratulations. You've accomplished one of the most
important milestones of your young lives. I see many younger students
here, welcome! You all are well on your way to standing in the place of
these fine young men and women. I see some alumni as well: welcome back!
I'm happy you all can join us to welcome our graduates into the folds of
adulthood. I see parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles, cousins,
brothers and sisters. Welcome too! Thank you for spending so much of
your time, energy and money to helping raise such a great collection of
young adults.

"I'm sure you're all excited to actually graduate, sooner rather than
later, so lets get right into it. Over the past two, three, and four
years, I have gotten to know all of you, I've seen you all come in as
children, and grow up unbelievably quickly. You all have packed so much
into your short time here.

"You've built robots, written and produced plays, conducted
philosophical debates, created viral applications, designed offshore
wind platforms, published in peer-reviewed journals, competed in
national athletic and intellectual competitions, and are headed to some
of the most prestigious, rigorous, and well-respected universities in
the world. In short, you have all grown up wonderfully and we are all
proud of each of you.

"You are going to be a part of a generation that will oversee such
drastic changes to our world that I can't even begin to predict any of
the challenges that you all will encounter. But, thankfully, our
commencement speaker, this year is Dr. Lillian Holbrook, the CEO of
Kelmer International, a venture capital firm where it is her business to
understand how the world is going to change, and how best to prepare for
it.

"Lillian?"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Thank you, Dr. Holbrook. Now I am happy to introduce to you someone
that you all know and love, your own senior speaker: Ethan Carver!"
*Holy fuck, this is* really *happening!*

I fail to banish the nerves from my face, but I stand, and walk up to
the podium. I hear the whispers start again, but they don't matter
anymore.

"Thanks so much for being here, everyone. I know, firsthand how hard it
has been for all of you to come from around the country and world to
help us celebrate. Even though my parents couldn't make it all of the
way here in time for this, it means so much to me, to all of us, to have
you, our friends, family, loved ones, to come and be here with us as we
journey on to the next chapter of our lives. Because, as both Professor
Kirk and Doctor Holbrook were saying, none of us know what the future
brings.

"You all have made it possible for the last two, three, and four years
of our lives to take the shape that they have, to put us in a community
like this one where even though my parents aren't able to be here, I
still feel like I am surrounded by family.

"Four years ago, I was a stranger in a strange land. It was the first
time I had ever left my home state of Maine, after living in a small
coastal town my entire life. And here I was, not yet 14 and completely
alone, terrified by this new experience with new classmates, new
teachers, and a whole new atmosphere.

"That feels like forever ago now. Our lives here, though the time
they've taken is very finite, only a couple of years, feels
undetermined, without beginning. I think that speaks to the kind of
place, people, and community that is here. Every year, sixty or so total
strangers step through those gates for the first time, alone and
terrified like me, like each of you. But only a few weeks later, we are
calling this place *home*.

"We are all incredibly lucky to have found this wonderful community, a
place where each of us can say that we belong. But this community
doesn't just exist, no. It's taken effort from each of us, every single
day. We are the nerds, the geeks, the oddballs, the 'smart kids', the
weirdos, and many other things that, where we all came from, were
ostracized, shunned, or otherwise made to feel unwelcome. But here, we
all accept everyone as they are, and I think that's what makes this
community special.

"Each one of us knows what it feels like to not fit in, so we've built a
community where everyone feels safe, feels welcome, and doesn't feel
judged. This school has become our safe space. Everyone feels safe
enough to be their selves and we've peeled away those outer, unhealthy
layers of our shells.

"Of course, that has exposed our vulnerabilities to each other---by
being true to ourselves, we have put ourselves at risk among one
another. But we've built a strong bond, and no one has ever betrayed
that trust. So we all have emerged, better than when we arrived.

"But even that safe space isn't always enough to allow someone to truly
come out of their shells. That trust we have in each other can also be a
barrier. As we've revealed ourselves to each other---even more than we
even knew about who we are---there are some things that we've discovered
about ourselves that might not match up with the personae we've
cultivated here.

"But---you might interject---aren't we being true to ourselves here, how
can we present a persona, aren't personae fake personalities? We *are*
being far more truthful in our personalties here. We *do* show aspects
of our personality that we've kept suppressed at home, at our sending
schools, but even then, there are aspects that we've kept hidden.
Aspects that feel contradictory to those we've first presented here,
ones that add depth and layers to our lives that we aren't ready to deal
with.

"So we've hidden even those. And for the most part, that is healthy. We
shouldn't know every little thing about each other---imagine all of the
embarrassing things that would cause. But sometimes there are things
that eat us from the inside, things that we want to share, but are still
afraid too. These are the most dangerous.

"These are the secrets that end relationships, that end lives. These
secrets often don't come out without help. They terrify their holders
just like Exeter terrified us when we first arrived. They poison us, but
we are too afraid to share them not because we are afraid of each other,
but because we fear our own truths.

"Today, I am using this speech to expose one of those truths about
myself. This one has eaten me for a long while now, and it wasn't until
this spring that I was able to open up about it to anyone.

"Yes this is the moment where I tell you why I disfigured my robe---why
I've chosen to graduate looking like *this*.

"How many of you all fall under the LGBTQIA-plus umbrella? It's far
higher than the statistics for the world at large would suggest. This, I
believe, is a result of the community we've built. The tradition of
tolerance that we carry on has attracted us here, where we know we will
be welcomed, regardless of our identity or sexuality.

"Almost all of you know that I am bisexual. It's never been a secret for
me. But what almost all of you don't know---never would have known if I
hadn't felt at home enough to tell my truth, is that I am also transgender. By
sophomore year, I had begun to understand one of the things that made it
so difficult for me to really integrate into a community---since I had a
so much difficulty accepting myself.

"I'd realized that I had been born with a body that didn't reflect the
way I was wired. My body was being flooded with hormones that affected
my life in ways that felt totally foreign to me. I was seeing others,
you girls, getting the changes that would have felt at home on me, while
instead, I was becoming like you men, no offense.

"But I was afraid of this feeling. I worried that it was some weird
fetish, or that I was a freak, or that I just hated myself, and this was
my mind's way of presenting that. So I hid it. From you, from her, from
him, from me.

"But I stepped out of our safe zone this past summer, when I went to a
NASA summer camp. The change in atmosphere helped push that feeling back
to the forefront. So I was battling it through the beginning of this
year.

"Then I come back here. I make friends with a couple sophomores, who had
just started here---some of those terrified strangers. Together, we
brought each other's secrets into the light, pushing us to break out of
our shells. We were happier---healthier---than we'd ever been before.

"Now here I am, telling this truth to you, freeing myself from this
secret that almost destroyed me. These past 4 years have never been
easy, but together, we've gotten through them. And for that, you all
will always be just as much my family as my parents.

"Our community will survive, though we will be scattered across the
world, not by being anchored to our old selves, even the ones we found
here, but by always continuing our journeys of self-discovery and by
helping others do the same. For in this unknown world we are about to
enter, we should be defined not by who we are, but by what we help
others become."

Graduation Playlist
-------------------

So for each chapter, I will post a playlist of all the music that Carver
is listening to. It's an important part of her character, and helps me
understand her personality through her music tastes. I'd try to describe
those tastes here, but it's not really a thing that I can fully capture
in just a few sentences. These also are the primary playlists I listen to
while writing each chapter.

I'm not even sure what those tastes are, but every so often, I'll come
across a song that I know she has definitely been listening the shit out
of. Because she doesn't like listen to a huge variety of songs
constantly---she tends to focus on a single album, or even a single
song, and listen to it until she hates it.

During sophomore year of high school, she was at her worst. She listened to a 
total of 17 songs all year. But after mentioning it off-hand at the summer camp
she was attending, her friends tend to send her albums and mixtapes in
order to try to vary it up for her (though all those people know Carver
with male pronouns).

But enough of my rambling about the characters---you'll get tired of
that between updates so I don't need to make you listen to that during
them. So here's the playlist:

Number  |     Song Title        | Artist
-------:|:---------------------:|:------------------
     1  |      *Raise Hell*     |  Dorothy
     2  |   *Hardly Hardly*[^1] |  Wallis Bird
     3  |    *You're A Runner*  |  Me And My Drummer
     4  |      *Beautifully*    |  Jay Brannan
     5  |  *Sky in Your Bones*  |  Tutile
     6  | *Unfinished Memories* |  Eowyn
     7  |        *Sirens*       |  Fleurie
    
[^1]: This song is no longer available on Spotify, but was when I was
      setting up the the playlists, etc. So your mileage may vary in
      trying to listen to it.

And that's it. This was Carver's playlist for finals week, the buildup
to graduation, and packing up after graduating.

*Raise Hell* was a single for the Dorothy album **ROCKISDEAD**, released
on June 24, about a month after graduation, so you know that's what she
listened to all summer.

It's good.
