---
title: Sea Songs - 1
author: fightfil
date: 9/12/2016
category: Sea Songs
---

# Introduction

It was a letter. No one sent letters anymore. Especially not to poor
liberal arts students working 8 hours a day just to keep ahead of her
rent while burying herself in insurmountable student loans to pay for
her degree. But I was staring at a real, honest-to-goodness, letter.

> 44 Gorham Road  
> Brooklin, ME 04616
>
> Miss Rebekah Coombs  
> 12 Lighthouse Road, Apt 16  
> Bethlehem, PA 18018

The handwriting addressing it---and it was hand-addressed---was flawless,
round, and entirely unremarkable, not a flourish in sight. The heavy
paper envelope was, obviously, not one from Staples, sold by the
hundred. So with some guilt about mutilating so fine an envelope, I tore
it open, revealing 3 equally heavy, equally fine sheets of stationary.

> Dear Rebekah,
>
> I may take the liberty of calling you Rebekah, I hope. You do not know
> me and, for now, I wish to keep it that way. No matter, for what I am
> about to tell you does not require you know anything about me. I
> happened upon one of the stories you wrote for the Moravian Literary
> Journal this past year and have since become interested in your
> success. To that end, I am offering you a scholarship to the Sea
> School of Creativity’s summer program.
>
> I don’t know if you know of it, but the Sea School is one of the most
> prestigious clubs of actors, writers, artists, and the like in the
> world. Each summer, they open their estate to a program that lasts for
> most of the summer, run by some of the leading members of each of
> those disciplines. You will gain many skills and connections I'm sure you
> will find useful down the road.

My heart was racing. I'd barely made it through the first half a page.
Conflicting thoughts and emotions tore at my consciousness. It seemed to good
to be true: A summer spent on an idyllic estate where I only had to focus on
my writing and hobnobbing with some of the best in the business? With no
other worries, I wouldn't need to pay for what would surely be an obscene
tuition? But I had never heard of any of it before, and I had no information
about whoever wrote this letter. What if this whole thing was some predatory
trap?

Who cared if it was a trap? Even if it *was* legit and even if I wouldn't have
to pay a cent all summer, I still couldn't afford to go. I had rent to pay,
loans to keep up on, and school to save for. I was going to have to work two
jobs this summer just to keep up with it all. Just my copyediting gig at the
local newspaper wasn't going to be enough to allow me to afford my books
this year. Now I wanted to go away and do nothing for the summer? Who the
fuck was I kidding?

I made to throw the letter into the garbage bin, but hesitated just long
enough for my curiosity to force myself to keep reading.

> I understand that I can't just ask you to uproot yourself for the
> summer and go to this program, abandoning whatever plans you had
> already made without some some sort of real compensation. That is
> why I've attached a hint of what awaits you if you choose to follow my
> plans.

Confused at this, I glanced at the other two pages, and saw that one of them
was folded around something. Unfolding it, I beheld a check---for \$5,000.
Dumbfounded, I returned to the letter:

> You will earn \$10,000 in hard cash for participating, as well as some
> other benefits that I cannot tell you about at this time.
>
> The following pages outline instructions for being enrolled in the program
> and how to contact my associates if you need something.
>
> Cheers,  
> Your Anonymous Benefactor

The other two pages were boilerplate introductions to the program, as well as
instructions on how to make my way to a pickup location. But the last few lines,
handwritten---an afterthought---almost made me drop the paper.

> Now, disregard all of the generic instructions about pickup, etc. You won't
> have to worry about that, as a direct pickup has been arranged for you. On
> June 11, at 3:30 PM EST, a town car will pick you up at your apartment.

It was 2:45. The date was June 11^th^. "Bastard!" I swore, not even noticing that
I spoke aloud, despite my lack of company. He'd planned it this way, With not even
45 minutes between receiving the letter and the time to leave, normally I would
probably have decided that it must have been for the best that I wouldn't have any
opportunity to prepare, and thus I couldn't go. But this benefactor had headed that
possibility off. Now that there was someone coming to pick me up, there was
no other valid course of action for me. I couldn't very well refuse the driver
when they were nice enough to pick me up at my door.

My equivocating cost me 3 of my remaining minutes. 42 left. So much to do. I
had to prepare to spend 11 weeks away from my apartment, my home. *What the
hell do I wear when I go hobnobbing with these celebrity writers and actors?*
My usual wardrobe of anime-themed t-shirts and jeans or yoga pants sure as hell
wouldn't cut it. I ran into my bedroom and started frantically throwing my best
outfits into my duffel bag.

A mediocre evening gown, two suits, and a sundress was the best I could manage.
I tossed a few of my normal shirts and jeans in to be safe, and then barely
remembered my underclothes. Bras, both normal and sport flew into the bag, followed
by panties, and even a few thongs. *Who knows, you might find someone interested in
that type of thing.* I snorted, deriding that line of thinking. My hand fell on something
hard. My vibrator, I saw, looking. Before I could second guess myself, I threw it in.

Then I moved to the bathroom. I collected all my toiletries: A toothbrush, the electric
razor, the manual one, 2 tubes of toothpaste, shampoo, conditioner, lotion, soap,
tampons, pads.

Back in the main room of my tiny studio, I grabbed my laptop, phone, accompanying
cables, my headphones and a backup set of earbuds, and my notebook. Then I tossed
in a few pens and pencils. I looked longingly at my home theater, already missing
the sweet bliss of hours lost to anime or Netflix. But it wouldn't fit in my bag,
and this 'idyllic Maine island' probably didn't have cell service, let alone 
WiFi.

Struggling, I forced the zipper on my duffel shut. All that stuff took up more
room than I had expected. I looked at my phone: 4 minutes to go. I shouldered my
backpack, hefted the duffel, and headed to the door. Sweating, with my hand on
the handle, I remembered I needed to grab my purse. Thankfully, I'd left it on the
hutch, right by the door. I snagged it and stepped outside.

I placed my duffel on the sidewalk, and then hurry back to the door, fumbling
around in my purse, searching for the key. Getting it, I turned it in the lock.
With that, I'd fully committed myself to this foolhardy lark.

A dark blue Model X swung around the bend, coming to an effortless stop in front
of my door. A tall woman in a gold coat stepped out the passenger door. Gliding
over to me, she took my bags. "We have one more pickup to do before we can get
you to the boat. I hope that isn't a problem."

"No problem at all," I force myself to say. I was still reeling from the 
suddenness of this situation and couldn't get myself to focus properly. This was
all so weird, like something out of a trashy romance novel---and a bad one at that.
I could barely wrap my head around the intricacies of this scholarship, let
alone offer up enough brain power to manage to be unfailingly civilized and
polite.

I walk to the proffered seat in the back of the car and flop gracelessly into it.
As soon as I fumble my way to securing the seatbelt around me, we're off. The
luxury car is every bit as smooth and easy to ride in as all those rich people
who could afford to be early adopters were saying. I barely noticed we're moving
as the car winds it's way through the streets of Bethlehem. But before I knew it
we were on the highway, headed east on I-78 towards the coast. Pennsylvania soon
becomes New Jersey and, merging onto 287, we are hurtling towards New Brunswick.

It's nearly five in the afternoon when we reach the pickup location---the historic
Queens' Campus of Rutgers University. Standing on the side walk wearing a boater
hat and a *fucking monocle*, was a man I immediately recognized. Nigel Jackson
was an indie film director of some repute---that is he actually had the barest
name recognition outside of film circles---and one of my inspirations to get into
screenwriting.

My mouth agape, I couldn't help but stare as one of my heroes was given the same
treatment as I had received barely an hour earlier. As the concierge stored his
bags, I him in: his hard, angular, jawline, broad shoulders, and bulky arms
suggested more of an athlete than the stereotypes for people in our profession
would represent. His tailored suit made no effort to hide the effect his
bulging pectorals had on his profile.

I was so engrossed by him that I hadn't noticed that he'd sat next to me until,
once the car was moving again, he asked, "Would you stop ogling me long enough
for me to introduce myself, please? It's fairly disconcerting."

I shook myself. "Nigel Jackson does not need introducing in my company." *God,
that sounded far worse than it did in my head.*

"That's a rare thing, but now you have me at a disadvantage: How about you
introduce yourself?" But without pausing long enough for me to respond, he starts,
"Getting concierge to this is no small feat, so you must be someone important. But,
no, if you were someone important, I'd surely recognize you, or at least, you'd
have been somewhat offended that I didn't. So, you're related to... No, know
important people. But you're far too doe-eyed around me to have been used to
hobnobbing with important people all the time, so you must be one of the
benefactees."

"My name is Rebekah Coombs and..." I started the moment he takes a breath, but
I got cut short when he started talking again.

"So, Rebekah, what kind are you," he mused. "You're no actor, that's as plain
as day. You don't seem to have a fleck of paint anywhere, so I refuse to
believe you're a painter..." He trailed off, obviously continuing his train
of thought non-verbally.

So I answer his question, "I do screenwriting and also will sometimes put out
out a short story, when the mood takes me."

"That explains it then! You're a screenwriter. It all makes sense now." With
that, he fell silent again, going elsewhere with his thoughts.

I pointedly look everywhere but him---still hung up on his first comment.
As the drive continued, I tried asking a few questions about his work. They
sparked a bit of meaningful discussion, but nothing really breaching the
surface. Not 20 minutes later, the car pulled up to the docks. "When you
board," the driver said. "You'll be shown to your cabin. We'll worry about
your luggage, so you don't have to."

The falcon doors opened upwards and I followed Jackson down the pier to
the launch.

